From this point, the rest of the process is automated.

Step 6:USE SORA
 **Text to Video **:  This AI will take the user's text and image input and generate a high-level plan for the video. It doesn't need to generate the video itself at this stage, just understand the user's input and create a structured plan.
The output should be sent to 3D Model

 Step 6 (Text-to-Video using SORA). The objective at this stage is not to produce the final animated video but to process all the previously curated data—story, screenplay, and storyboard—into a high-level, structured plan. This plan will guide the 3D modeling, scene construction, lighting, and animation steps that follow.

Step 6: Text-to-Video (SORA Integration)
Objectives:

Ingest the storyboard, screenplay, and story data as well as character references and scene details.
Use SORA (Text-to-Video AI) to create a structured outline of the video, including shot sequences, scene flows, and key visual elements.
Produce a machine-readable plan that downstream tools (3D Model generation, NeRF, HDRI, etc.) can interpret to automate their processes.
The output should detail what each scene requires in terms of characters, sets, props, actions, and camera moves, but without rendering the actual final video yet.
Key Tools & Technologies:

SORA API/Client: An AI model designed to take textual and storyboard inputs and produce a structured video plan.
Input Data:
Story and screenplay from Steps 2 & 4.
Character assets and details from Step 3.
Detailed storyboard panels and notes from Step 5.
Output Data:
A high-level, scene-by-scene shot plan.
Requirements for each scene: sets, characters, props, movements.
Timing references aligned with the storyboard’s timeline.
Detailed Steps
Data Gathering:

Collect the finalized storyboard data from Step 5, including:
Scene breakdowns and panel descriptions.
Camera angles, character positions, transitions.
Timing and emotional cues noted for each scene.
Retrieve screenplay data from Step 4 to ensure dialogues, acts, and scene order are consistent.
Retrieve character details from Step 3:
Names, roles, and the file paths to their 3D models.
Gather any location descriptions from Step 2 for environmental elements needed in each scene.
Formulating the Text-to-Video Prompt:

Construct a prompt for SORA that includes:
A summary of the overall story and genre.
Detailed breakdown of each scene (from the screenplay).
References to storyboard panels indicating desired camera angles, shot types, character placements, and key actions.
Emphasize that the output should be a structured plan rather than a final video. For example:
sql

'Please produce a scene-by-scene blueprint of the final video based on the provided screenplay and storyboard. For each scene:
- List required characters, their initial positions, and key movements.
- Specify props or environment elements (if any).
- Outline camera shots in order: shot type (e.g., wide, close-up), camera movement (if any), and duration or timestamp references.
- Include references to the emotional tone and lighting conditions as indicated in the storyboard.
'
Executing the SORA Request:

Call SORA’s API with the constructed prompt and the data references.
Ensure that the SORA request includes all relevant textual information. If SORA supports attaching JSON or metadata, provide structured data (scene indexes, character IDs, timestamps).
Processing SORA’s Response:

SORA returns a high-level structured plan, for example:
'{
  "Act 1": {
    "Scene 1": {
      "Shots": [
        {
          "shot_type": "wide",
          "camera_position": "front_of_characterA",
          "duration": "00:00:10",
          "characters": [
            {"name": "CharacterA", "action": "standing at center", "emotion": "nervous"}
          ],
          "environment": {
            "lighting": "soft morning light",
            "props": ["wooden table", "map on the wall"]
          }
        },
        {
          "shot_type": "medium",
          "camera_movement": "slow_pan_left",
          "duration": "00:00:05",
          "characters": [
            {"name": "CharacterB", "action": "enters from left", "emotion": "concerned"}
          ],
          "notes": "Focus on CharacterB’s arrival and reaction."
        }
      ],
      "transitions": "CUT from previous scene"
    },
    "Scene 2": { ... }
  },
  "Act 2": { ... }
}
'
Validate the returned data. Check that it aligns with the screenplay scenes and storyboard notes.
If discrepancies arise (e.g., missing character, incorrect timing), prompt the user to either manually adjust or regenerate the plan.
User Review & Minor Adjustments:

Present the structured plan in a user-friendly interface.
Allow the user to edit metadata directly (e.g., changing a shot from medium to close-up, adjusting character emotion).
If major changes are needed, the user can revise the prompt and re-run SORA.
Saving & Forwarding the Output:

Once approved, save the structured video plan in the database.
This structured plan becomes the blueprint for the subsequent steps (3D Model generation, NeRF scene building, HDRI lighting, etc.).
Automatically proceed to Step 7 (3D Model) by sending the relevant information about what 3D models are required per scene (characters, props, set pieces).
Benefits of the Revised Process
Clarity & Specificity: The SORA-generated plan offers a clear roadmap for converting text and storyboard data into a video production blueprint.
Reduced Ambiguity: By specifying shots, camera angles, durations, and character emotions, downstream processes know exactly what to produce.
Iterative Control: The user can refine the plan, ensuring that the automated steps align perfectly with the creative vision.
Seamless Integration: Passing this structured output along ensures that the next AI tools (3D Model generation, NeRF, etc.) have a detailed “shopping list” of assets and scenes to create.
By following this improved step-by-step strategy for Step 6, the Text-to-Video stage using SORA becomes a crucial intermediary that bridges the gap between the human-guided pre-production steps (story, screenplay, storyboard) and the fully automated production steps that follow.






































































































